---
layout: post
title:  "Q-fid: Quantum Circuit Fidelity Improvement with LSTM Networks"
date:   2025-03-26
image: /images/arxiv-17523-qfid.png
categories: research
author: "Yikai Mao"
authors: "Yikai Mao, <strong>Shaswot Shresthamali</strong>, Masaaki Kondo"
venue: "Advanced Quantum Technologies" 
paper: /pdfs/aqt-2025-paper.pdf
arxiv: https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.17523
link : https://doi.org/10.1002/qute.202500022 
slides:
code:
---
The fidelity of quantum circuits is influenced by several factors, including hardware characteristics, calibration status, and the transpilation process, all of which impact their susceptibility to noise. However, existing methods struggle to estimate and compare the noise performance of different circuit layouts due to fluctuating error rates and the absence of a standardized fidelity metric. In this work, we introduce Q-fid, a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) based fidelity prediction system accompanied by a novel metric designed to quantify the fidelity of quantum circuits. Q-fid provides an intuitive way to predict the noise performance of NISQ quantum circuits. Our approach frames fidelity prediction as a Time Series Forecasting problem to analyze the tokenized circuits, capturing the causal dependence of the gate sequences and their impact on overall fidelity. Additionally, the model is capable of dynamically adapting to changes in hardware characteristics, ensuring accurate fidelity predictions under varying conditions. Q-fid achieves a high prediction accuracy with an average RMSE of 0.0515, up to 24.7× more accurate than the Qiskit transpile tool mapomatic. By offering a reliable method for fidelity prediction, Q-fid empowers developers to optimize transpilation strategies, leadingto more efficient and noise-resilient quantum circuit implementations.
